# FreeIPA server in Docker

This repository contains the Dockerfile and associated assets for
building a freeipa-server Docker image from the official yum repo.

Install docker (v0.9 or v0.11; avoid v0.10)

    yum install -y docker-io

Start the service:

    systemctl start docker

To build the image, run in the root of the repository:

    docker build -t freeipa-server .

To run the container:

    docker run --privileged --name freeipa-server-container -ti -h ipa.example.test -e PASSWORD=Secret123 freeipa-server

The `--privileged` option gives the container extended privileges,
which is needed to access dbus.  `--name` assigns the container a
name that can be used later with `docker start`, `docker stop` and
other commands.  `ipa-server-install` is invoked non-interactively
the first the container is run, and the `PASSWORD` environment
variable specifies the admin password.

`-ti` is optional and is used to start a shell (useful for
experimenting in the container.)

The container can the be started and stopped:

    docker start freeipa-server-container
    docker stop freeipa-server-container


# IPA-enrolled client in Docker

Checkout the `fedora-20-client` or `rhel-7-beta-client` branch,
according to your needs.  In the root of the repository, run:

    docker build -t freeipa-client .

To run the client, link it to the freeipa-server container:

    docker run --privileged --link freeipa-server-container:ipa -e PASSWORD=Secret123 -ti freeipa-client

The first time this container runs, it invokes `ipa-client-install`
with the given admin password.  Sample output:

    Unable to discover domain, not provided on command line
    Installation failed. Rolling back changes.
    IPA client is not configured on this system.
    FreeIPA-enrolled.
    Starting interactive shell.
    bash-4.2#

`--link` is used to set up a private network connection between the
referenced container and the new container.  The referenced
container must be running.  The linked container's environment is
populated with variables indicating the port mapping.  The
`ipa-client-configure-first` entrypoint uses these environment
variables to connect to the server container when configuring the
client.

# Copyright 2014 Jan Pazdziora

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
